-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to expose Replica set
as a service so that we'll be able to access the application
present in Replica set parts via browser.
So let's go ahead and then do that now.
So we are going to say Q CTL expose Replica set,
which is nothing
but RS and the RS name Replica set name and the type
is going to be node port and rest All is going to be same.
Port is the service port,
which is cluster IP port and the target port is nothing
but the 80 80 which is nothing but my application port
whatever it is, running my container.
Port Cube Hollow World container Port is 80 80.
And the name of the service is going to be my Hollow
World RS service.
So let's go ahead and then do this now.
Right? So it's completed.
So now let's go ahead and then get the the service,
right? and you have it as 3 0 5 0 5.
And get notes hyphen OY to get the public IP.
And the public IP is this one external IP
and the port is 3 0 5 0 5.
Right? So let's go here and
3 0 5 0 5 slash hello.
and we got this.
Okay, so let me make it bigger.
And now if you want to refresh and you can take the same URL
and in new tab one more time access it.
You see one more value here, okay?
And in one more time and you can do one more time.
So like this you can access
and then it will keep load balancing.
So if you see here it is D seven H B K
here it is Z N B G W.
So to which container it is going that respective
to container's id
it is going to throw it here on the browser.
So let's see what does that mean?
Okay, I said cube CTL get ports. So you see it, right?
The request went to Z N B G W container, okay
so that's what it is showing here.
And another request went to D seven H V K.
So and then you have this here.
So like that I have written a springboard code means like
java code in my container and then packaged it
so that now whatever to which container it goes.
That respect to container already you are going to
see it here just for fun, okay?
So nothing much inside that
but you need to access your application in this manner.
Okay? So node one, public IP colon node
port whatever we have got and then slash hello the context
of this application is slash hello
because it is a hello world application.
In our next step what we are going to do is we
are going to test the replica set reliability
or high availability. So what does this mean?
So whenever a port is accidentally terminated due to
some application issue
replica set should auto create that port to
maintain the designed number of replicas.
So that's what is replica sets reliability are
high availability concept.
So you have here three ports running, right?
So and if you go ahead and then delete one pod cube CTL,
delete pod and then delete one port.
So you are trying to simulate the accidental deletion.
Okay? So automatically it should start creating one
more pod replica said will create the pod immediately.
So there is some connectivity issue but we'll
try one more time.
Okay, so now the port got delete.
So let's test this with QCTL get ports.
So once we have deleted the port and now you see
that the all the two parts whatever are there is age
of 27 minutes, but whatever you have deleted and then
replica has automatically created a new port which is of
95 seconds.
If you want we can delete one more couple
of parts one more time, okay Q CTL delete port
and then we'll also delete our D seven H V K pod.
Okay? So and then
in that place replica set should create one more pod.
So let's see that now.
Q CTL get ports.
Now you can see that, so D seven HVK is gone and then
you have got in that place 27 4 mg new port 16 seconds.
It's H.
So you can see the first one port is from 28 minutes
it is running, the other is from two minutes and this is
from 16 seconds.
So what here Replica set is doing is, it is automatically
creating the ports to ensure that the number of replicas
whatever we have configured here, right?
So it is trying to ensure that the number
of replicas are going to be three always.
So that's about the replica set reliability are
high availability concept.
So the next concept is replica sets scalability feature.
So we can simply scale our replica set just
by updating our spec here, right?
So we can go into our spec.
So let me go here and this is my replica set right?
So, and then I will say here
Six replicas and then save it and then apply
that change which is nothing but cube CTL replace
and the same file. Okay, let me see.
Clear and past cube CTL replace hyphen F
and the replica set demo dot YML.
And let's see what happens.
So now our replica set got replaced.
Cube CTL get RS the replica set we are going to
see now you see that desired replicas are going to be six
current is six and then ready is six.
So I'll say get ports and then you should see six
ports up and running here now, right?
So that's about it.
So from last 22 seconds we have three parts came
up online automatically.
So in this way you'll be able to scale your replica set
quickly by updating the number of replicas
in your replica set demo dot YML.
So that's about it.
And now the next thing is to delete the replica set
in the service.
So we are trying to clean up the stuff.
Okay, so let's go ahead and then
get RS. So we'll get the Replica name, cube CTL
delete RS, and we are going to say my hello word RS
The same way.
Get SVC, which is nothing but Q CTL.
Get services and Q CTL delayed SVC,
my hello world service.
Once this is completed you can say QCTL
get all to see that whatever is present
in your default name space where you help worked other
than Kubernetes default cluster IP stuff
no other thing is available.
So this completes the replica set end to end.
Whatever we have learned using imperative way
just we have used only the AML file for us.
Because Imperatively
you cannot create a replica set object.
Now one thing important here is like one pending
concept is present in Replica set,
which is label send selectors.
So this is going to be a common concept for
multiple Kubernetes concepts, okay?
Like ports, replica sets, deployments
and then services everywhere.
You are going to use labels and selectors.
So we are going to cover it when we are writing equivalent
YAML files there so that we'll understand in detail.
With that said, in our next lecture
we'll start working on the deployment concept of Kubernetes.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.